We are all aware that Bluetooth and WiFi are both platforms that provide means of wireless communicationand data (and media) transfer and sharing. However, these two differ in the areas of purpose and functionality, i.e, what they are designed to do and how they are used to achieve the objectives for which they are applied. Bluetooth is used to connect devices for the purpose of data and media transfer specifically while WiFi is a service that grants a user access to high speed internet connectivity and accessibility.

Bluetooth is a wireless technology platform that is used to exchange and share data and information over a specified range or distance (although it is usually used with devices that are less than 30 feet apart). Basically, a device which gas support for Bluetooth (such as a smartphone or MP3 player) can be used to communicate with other devices with built in Bluetooth support, such as wireless headsets, printers, modems, etc. This means that Bluetooth steps into the role of a cord or cable as it creates a safe and secure wireless connection between two devices for easier and effective communication.

Over the years, the applications of Bluetooth have become wider and broader. It has been able to boost the operating power of some portable devices by creating a more effective way of communication with other Bluetooth-enabled devices. Other devices have also sprung up with Bluetooth support; MP3 players, stereos, headsets, smartwatches and now, even [Bluetooth glasses](https://www.kickstarter.com/projects/camemoryusa/digioptix-bone-conduction-camera-glasses?ref=project_tweet/). Its functionality is highly expansive and it seems now that everything works even better when fitted with Bluetooth support.

WiFi is a service whose functionality and operational principle is similar to that of Bluetooth. It has similarities, such as the fact that to send files via WiFi, a secure Local Area Network must first be created. WiFi is also a wireless network (obviously), although unlike Bluetooth which is programmed to help devices in communication, it was set up to enable devices connect directly to the Internet or an Ethernet for web browsing and other associated functions. For those who may not know, an example of anEthernet networks is a corporate Local Area Network. Also, WiFi has a wider connectivity range, unlike Bluetooth which, as we have established, works within a much shorter range.WiFi signals can be tapped from hundreds of feet away and still offer a strong and reliable network connection. The functionality of the WiFi network is also enabled b y hotspots; regions where a WiFi presence can be strongly felt and accessed. Here, multiple devices can connect through a WiFi connection and be in simultaneous communication with each other.

A hotspotcan be a space of small surface area or a large region. However, if hotspots are authorized to overlap, the range could cover miles and miles. Today, WiFi connection is available in most homes, company offices and complexes, shopping malls, bars and restaurants and other business establishments. Firms and businesses usually employ WiFi as an additional service to customers. The government also makes allowance for some public places and notable spots to have WiFi and access and by extension, internet connectivity.
